# CS-340-Portfolio-Item | Project Two + Final Reflection

# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

My approach in this project was to keep our aac_crud.py aka our CRUD Python Module as the function that contained all our database logic. Our final dashboard just acts as an extension or controller for that module. Together they make it all happen. This separation is modular and allows me to only focus on the dashboard in the final sprint without having to worry about breaking the initial logic or having to modify it to appeal to new code like our pie aggregation system and other front-end changes. Our Python CRUD module could be reused and modified to work on other devices with different settings and could even help us with some future goals like CSV export logic and so on.

# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

As a computer scientist one of my main approaches in solving requirements is by first carefully reading, identifying, and categorizing them. Understanding the needed fields, variables, and parameters including our Dashboard requirements are what allowed me to set the structure needed for the code I would develop. I’d say the main thing that stands out is that we had to finish up our Python Module early on. Usually, we would have some object oriented practices but I felt like our module was fully complete early on so I had time to focus and modify our dashboard without having to worry about it. For any future work with databases I will always focus on my problem solving approach that shined especially in this course. Data collecting through reading, identifying, and categorizing all necessary goals and then executing them.

# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists solve problems first and foremost. Their job is to come up with a reusable, modular solution that works in all scenarios regarding a specific problem. In this specific instance, we had to finish our dashboard which converts our animal shelter records into visual data that Grazioso Salvare could quickly identify and target. This makes their efforts measurable and calculated. It is much more practical because it is easy to read for non tech savvy users like new employees or clients. Not only that but our dashboard is easily modifiable for any needs required. This means the dashboard is ready for all sorts of uses, making it a great example of what computer scientists and programmers aim to do when creating effective applications.
